---
title: What is consciousness and my attempt at answering it.
description: Although divinity is not my forte, but having been in this domain for a long, searching for the source, I have encountered many questions just like everyone else. The inquisitive soul wandering, and trying to find meaning in everything. Sometimes it felt like ignorance is what I should follow, but then this why kept staring at me. Its not me looking at the why, but contrary to my belief, it’s the why which is pursuing me relentlessly. It’s the way it’s been designed. I fail to answer things for myself as the words seem useless to describe how I feel, but when someone asks this question to me for themselves, words just want to come out.
date: "2021-12-16 21:58:00 +0530"
---


Although divinity is not my forte, but having been in this domain for a long, searching for the source, I have encountered many questions just like everyone else. The inquisitive soul wandering, and trying to find meaning in everything. Sometimes it felt like ignorance is what I should follow, but then this why kept staring at me. Its not me looking at the why, but contrary to my belief, it’s the why which is pursuing me relentlessly. It’s the way it’s been designed. I fail to answer things for myself as the words seem useless to describe how I feel, but when someone asks this question to me for themselves, words just want to come out.

Here is the answer to the inquisitive divine soul, and whatever I have to offer. You and I or anything are not different, we all are one!

The consciousness is present everywhere, like a big one entity, engulfing everything that you and I can see or imagine. It transcends all the dimensions that you and I can see or imagine, but the degree of its presence varies. The highest form exits, so does the lowest form, and everything in between. The highest form is the “source” from where everything is emanating. Imagine it like magnetic field lines around an object. For simplicity, imagine as if multiple ropes are tied to two different points, and both these points are actually the part of the same. All of these ropes spread out randomly in the universe from the sources and then back into the source. Think of, everyone or everything given one rope each, and everyone is standing at a particular point in this rope. Since it’s a consciousness, your highest form, your lowest form, and all other conscious versions of yours are present on this rope. The natural question comes, what are we doing here at this time in this space. Frankly, I do not know the answer to this question, maybe to fulfil some purpose or some desire, but one thing I do feel, if somehow, I could collapse all conscious versions of mine, I’ll automatically become part of the source or feel the oneness. After answering why, it’s how that will start staring at you.

If anything doesn’t happen or happens suddenly, remember you are being guided by your own version, the highest one being the source, the oneness. Although destined by your thoughts, which itself is the cumulative consciousness of all your versions, your free will is not prisoned. Thoughts are powerful, it makes the world inside you, outside of you, and across you.
