---
title: What is consciousness and answer to why
description: Although divinity is not my forte, but having been in this domain for a long, searching for the source, I have encountered many questions just like everyone else. The inquisitive soul wandering, and trying to find meaning in everything. Sometimes it felt like ignorance is what I should follow, but then this why kept staring at me. Its not me looking at the why, but contrary to my belief, it’s the why which is pursuing me relentlessly. It’s the way it’s been designed. I fail to answer things for myself as the words seem useless to describe how I feel, but when someone asks this question to me for themselves, words just want to come out.
date: "2021-12-16 21:58:00 +0530"
---

Although divinity is not my forte, but having been in this domain for a long, searching for the source, I have encountered many questions just like everyone else. The inquisitive soul wandering, and trying to find meaning in everything. Sometimes it felt like ignorance is what I should follow, but then this why kept staring at me. Its not me looking at the why, but contrary to my belief, it’s the why which is pursuing me relentlessly. It’s the way it’s been designed. I fail to answer things for myself as the words seem useless to describe how I feel, but when someone asks this question to me for themselves, words just want to come out.

Here is the answer to the inquisitive divine soul, and whatever I have to offer. You and I or anything are not different, we all are one!

The consciousness is present everywhere, like a big one entity, engulfing everything that you and I can see or imagine. It transcends all the dimensions that you can see or imagine, but the degree of its presence varies. The highest form exits, so does the lowest form, and everything in between. The highest form is the “sources” from where everything is emanating. Imagine as if multiple ropes are tied to a point, and all of these ropes spreads out randomly in the universe. Think of, everyone or everything given one rope each, and everyone is standing at a particular point in this rope. Since it’s a consciousness, your highest form is closer to the source and the lower form is farther from it. The natural question comes, what are we doing here at this time in this space. Frankly, I do not know the answer to this question, maybe to fulfil some purpose or some desire, but one thing I do feel, if somehow, I could collapse all conscious versions of mine, I’ll automatically become part of the source or feel the oneness. 

If anything doesn’t happen or happens suddenly, remember you are being guided by your own versions on the either side of the rope. You will always be presented with a choice, at least once, in every scenario, although destined by your thoughts, your free will is not prisoned. Thoughts are powerful, it makes the world inside you, outside of you, and across you. Use it wisely!
