---
layout: linked_post
title: Plato
permalink: /linked_posts/Plato/
---
Flowchart to be followed to understand Plato's teaching. I will add texts later. As of now, only flowcharts will be available.

<div class="mermaid">
        graph LR
    A[IDEAS] --> B["To Explain<br>Appearance<br>& Reality"];
    A --> C["To Explain<br>Unity &<br>Diversity"];
    A --> D["To Explain<br>possibility of<br>objective,<br>universal,<br>unchangeable,<br>eternal<br>knowledge"];
    A --> E["To Explain<br>unreality of<br>the relative<br>problems<br>regarding<br>universal"];
    G["Ideas are<br>common &<br>essential<br>quality of<br>all the<br>members of a<br>class.<br>(Universal)"] --> A;
    H["Ideas have<br>existence<br>prior to<br>things &<br>independent<br>of things."] --> A;
    I["Ideas are not<br>mental in<br>nature, but<br>objectively<br>real.<br>(In reduced<br>sense)"] --> A;
    J["Like<br>numbers,<br>triangles,<br>etc."] --> A;
    K["By Mental<br>Construct,<br>Beauty,<br>etc."] --> A;
    L["METAPHYSICS"] -- Relation --> A;
    M["EPISTEMOLOGY"] -- Theory of Ideas --> A;
    L --> N["Ideas are<br>often<br>accepted as<br>ultimate<br>reality.<br>i.e.<br>Metaphysical<br>Idealism"];
    M --> O["1. Ideas<br>are object<br>of knowledge<br>(reasonable)"];
    M --> P["2. Senses<br>are reports<br>& imperfect<br>data from<br>reason"];
    M --> Q["3.<br>Epistemological<br>Realism"];
</div>
---
<div class="mermaid">
	graph LR
    A["What is KNOWLEDGE?"] --> B["Eternal, Unchanging,<br>Universal, Objective,<br>Real, Necessary"];
    B --> C["Object of<br>Knowledge"];
    C --> D["HOW we find<br>KNOWLEDGE of IDEA?"];
    D --> E["NOT Through<br>Experience"];
    D --> F["Through REASON,<br>Native Knowledge"];
    G["OBJECTS of<br>Empirical World/<br>Merely Objects"] --> H["Can't be accepted as<br>OBJECT of such<br>Knowledge because<br>'They're Limited,<br>Changeable &<br>Impermanent'"];
    H --> I["Objects of<br>Opinion"];
    I --> J["Through Sense<br>Organs, we find them"];
    K["Because Ideas have<br>existence in<br>Transcendental<br>world is<br>Transcendental<br>Realism"] --> L["Knowledge is<br>derived from<br>God & is<br>'A Priori'"];
    M["IDEAS:"] --> N["Ideas are object of<br>such knowledge<br>because there are<br>unchangeable,<br>eternal,<br>permanent &<br>universal"];
    M --> O["UNIVERSALS are<br>common &<br>essential<br>elements of a<br>particular class"];
    M --> P["UNIVERSALS are not<br>only independent<br>from mind and<br>also from<br>particular objects<br>of this universe"];
    M --> Q["They have their<br>existence in<br>Transcendental<br>world"];
    R["In this context,<br>Plato has given<br>Theory of<br>Recollection"] --> S["Private Noise"];
    S --> T["Examples:<br>No body can<br>recognize<br>knowledge<br>through sense<br>organs"];
    S --> U["World of Ideas<br>exists in<br>Transcendental<br>world & is the<br>real world"];
    S --> V["Knowledge<br>through<br>Recollection"];
    W["Idea is<br>Transcendental<br>Reality & is the<br>original pattern<br>of the world.<br>(Reproduction<br>Theory)"] --> U;
</div>
---
<div class="mermaid">
	graph LR
    A[PLATO] --> B["2 Types of Worlds"];
    B --> C["Empirical World"];
    B --> D["World of Ideas"];
    C --> E["On Empirical Level<br>Plato has accepted<br>Heraclitus' thought:<br>Becoming (Change)<br>is accepted."];
    C --> F["Parmenides' view is<br>accepted on level<br>of Ideas."];
    D --> G["World of Ideas"];
    D --> H["Difference b/w<br>2 Worlds"];
    G --> I["1. Ideas are Real."];
    G --> J["2. Ideas are perfect,<br>Eternal,<br>Unchangeable."];
    G --> K["1. Half Real,<br>Half Unreal<br>(Ref to Republic)."];
    G --> L["Another mind"];
    G --> M["Empirical World"];
    G --> N["2. Imperfect,<br>Impermanent,<br>changeable."];
    G --> O["3. Knowledge<br>through experience."];
    G --> P["4. Object of<br>Opinion."];
    G --> Q["5. Photo copy."];
    G --> R["6. Objects are<br>particulary<br>concrete."];
    G --> S["5. Ultimate<br>Reality."];
    G --> T["4. Object of<br>knowledge."];
    G --> U["3. Knowledge<br>through<br>Recollection."];
    G --> V["5. Ideas are<br>universal<br>attitude."];
    G --> W["Plato has given<br>much more<br>emphasis on<br>Being's Ideas<br>Eternity."];
</div>
---
<div class="mermaid">
	graph LR
    A["Relation between<br>2 Worlds"] --> B["1. Copy Theory"];
    A --> C["2. Participation<br>Theory"];
    A --> D["3. Expression<br>Theory"];
    B --> E["Objects of this<br>universe are<br>photocopy of<br>Ideas."];
    B --> F["Objects of this<br>universe are<br>imperfect<br>expression of<br>Ideas that<br>living object<br>are real/half-real<br>& half-unreal."];
    C --> G["Objects of this<br>universe<br>participate in<br>their Ideas."];
    C --> H["All white<br>objects<br>participate in<br>Idea of<br>whiteness."];
    D --> I["Objects of this<br>universe are<br>real objects."];
    J["5 Perspective<br>regarding<br>Theory of<br>Ideas"] --> K["1. Logical<br>Perspective"];
    J --> L["2. Teleological<br>Perspective"];
    J --> M["3.<br>Epistemological<br>Perspective"];
    J --> N["4. Mystical<br>Perspective"];
    J --> O["5. Ontological<br>Perspective"];
    J --> P["ZELLER"];
    K --> Q["Ideas<br>accepted as<br>Universal."];
    K --> R["Independent<br>Existence."];
    L --> S["Numbers exist<br>as external<br>structure."];
    L --> T["Eternal<br>Archetypes."];
    M --> U["Ideas are real<br>objects of<br>our knowledge."];
    N --> V["Ideas are<br>accepted as<br>expression of<br>God."];
    O --> W["Ideas are<br>ultimate<br>reality."];
    O --> X["Eternal &<br>Permanent."];
    O --> Y["Beyond space<br>& time."];
    P --> Z["Idea is set<br>upon only by<br>thinking."];
    P --> AA["Making any<br>purpose of<br>existence."];
    P --> AB["Man try to<br>establish<br>eternal<br>standard."];
    P --> AC["Without Space."];
</div>